README.md, before:

# meiosis-unity-animation

A short game-jam-like-project to create a procedural animation of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meiosis"><B>cell meiosis</B></A>

Original constraints:

* Needs to be done in 10-12 hours
* Should not include any paid assets or proprietary code
* The core loop or flow should be understandable to a non-coder
* Flow should closely follow the whiteboard plan (see end)

You can see a  <A HREF="https://youtu.be/4Z_fczEU6d8">video of the program running</A> (with me controlling the janky camera) here.

<B>Code Architecture</B>

* The main cell has a Finite State Machine (FSM) which is based upon some course work from 
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/c/Unity3dCollege"><B>Jason Weimann</B></A>
* Within each state (set up in OnEnter), we sequence a number of events like the cell growing, based upon a timer
* To see a good OnEnter example, look at <A HREF="https://github.com/iangiblin/meiosis-unity-animation/blob/a99909a9ca75017445bbef0a6950aa1426c652ad/Assets/Scripts/CellState/Phase1_Interphase.cs"><B>Phase1_Interphase</B></A>
* At the end of each phase (in OnExit) we clear all timers from the state machine ready for the next phase.
* Cells internally have a counter for what generation they are, so they know if they're in Cycle I or Cycle II

<B>Other Notes</B>

I set out to use this as a learning opportunity but time was too short to write much great code. The main new thing for me was the
mesh deformation needed to divide a cell. I had seen a few tutorials and videos but never really tried it; it turned out to be much
easier than I thought and only required one short script. That is also available in a separate repo:
<A HREF="https://github.com/iangiblin/unity-mesh-deformation-demo"><B>unity mesh deformation demo</B></A>

![constriction](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39740472/149665977-23a8de7d-c4b4-4955-8c01-c6a5c354085e.gif)

<B>The Whiteboard</B>

![whiteboard](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39740472/149665988-273d8652-b4d4-4751-ae5c-f9685a8e10c6.JPG)

Commit message:

Added itch link and cleaned up readme.

README.md, after:

# meiosis-unity-animation

A short game-jam-like-project to create a procedural animation of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meiosis"><B>cell meiosis</B></A> using <a href="https://unity.com/"><B>Unity3D</B></A>

Original constraints:

* Needs to be done in 10-12 hours
* Should not include any paid assets or proprietary code
* The core loop or flow should be understandable to a non-coder
* Flow should closely follow the whiteboard plan (see end)

You can see a  <A HREF="https://youtu.be/4Z_fczEU6d8">video of the program running</A> (with me controlling the janky camera) here.
You can also find the Windows exeutable version <A href="https://badpennygames.itch.io/meiosis"></B>on itch.io</B></A>

<B>Code Architecture</B>

* The main cell has a Finite State Machine (FSM) which is based upon some course work from 
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/c/Unity3dCollege"><B>Jason Weimann</B></A>
* Within each state (set up in OnEnter), we sequence a number of events like the cell growing, based upon a timer
* To see a good OnEnter example, look at <A HREF="https://github.com/iangiblin/meiosis-unity-animation/blob/a99909a9ca75017445bbef0a6950aa1426c652ad/Assets/Scripts/CellState/Phase1_Interphase.cs"><B>Phase1_Interphase</B></A>
* At the end of each phase (in OnExit) we clear all timers from the state machine ready for the next phase.
* Cells internally have a counter for what generation they are, so they know if they're in Cycle I or Cycle II

<B>Other Notes</B>

I set out to use this as a learning opportunity but time was too short to write much great code. The main new thing for me was the
mesh deformation needed to divide a cell. I had seen a few tutorials and videos but never really tried it; it turned out to be much
easier than I thought and only required one short script. That is also available in a separate repo:
<A HREF="https://github.com/iangiblin/unity-mesh-deformation-demo"><B>unity mesh deformation demo</B></A>

![constriction](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39740472/149665977-23a8de7d-c4b4-4955-8c01-c6a5c354085e.gif)

<B>The Whiteboard</B>

![whiteboard](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39740472/149665988-273d8652-b4d4-4751-ae5c-f9685a8e10c6.JPG)
